README.md, before:

# SquareLoop

## About

SquareLoop is a tool based on [TimeLoop](https://timeloop.csail.mit.edu/) and its two derivatives: LayoutLoop and [SecureLoop](https://github.com/kyungmi-lee/SecureLoop-MICRO2023Artifact). It integrates the functionalities of both those tools: more accurate layout-based memory modeling and cryptographic overhead, and improves on both of them.

The key contributions of SquareLoop over previous tools are:
* flexible, all-level partitioning based AuthBlock
* realistic layout-based memory model utilizing accurate dataspace-wise evaluation
* introduction of physical ranks, allowing for independent per-dataspace layout and AuthBlock specification 
* Authentication-Layout-Mapping co-search algorithm

![Overview](overview.png)




## Usage

It is recommended to clone this repository inside the docker available [here](https://github.com/Accelergy-Project/accelergy-timeloop-infrastructure/tree/master), which has all required packages for building squareloop.
Running the experiments will require installing the following python packages in a virtual environment:

`pip install torch torchlens pyyaml torchvision pandas`

To build SquareLoop use the `scons` command in the root directory of the repository.

SquareLoop interface is based on that of TimeLoop with some additions.
Use `build/timeloop-model` to evaluate a workload on a given architecture provided a mapping.
In order to enable layout-based memory modeling include a layout file in the command. Example layouts can be found in the experiment results.
To also anable cryptographic overhead evaluation include a cryptographic engine file, for example `benchmarks/crypto/AES-GCM-parallel.yaml`, and include `authblok_lines` section in the layout.

`build/timeloop-mapper` with provided layout will search for the best mapping using that layout. If layout is not provided the algorithm will co-search the mapping and layout (and AuthBlock if crypto is included).




## Code Structure

Most changes introduced by SquareLoop are to the following files:

* `src/model/buffer.cpp` -
    This file contains the code for layout and AuthBlock modeling. The entrypoint for that evaluation is in the function `BufferLevel::ComputeBankConflictSlowdown`, which calculates a slowdown caused by memory and cryptography for a given memory level.

* `src/layoutspaces/layoutspace.cpp` -
    This file contains the code that creates the design space of layouts and AuthBlocks used in the Authentication-Layout-Mapping co-search algorithm.

* `src/applications/mapper/mapper-thread.cpp` -
    This file extends the mapping search by exploration of the layout and AuthBlock design space created in `layoutspace.cpp`.




## Experiment setup

We use the following files in the experiments:

* Architecture
    * SIGMA (vector256)
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/vector_256.yaml`
    * Edge-TPU (systolic)
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/vector_256.yaml`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/systolic_constraint/mapspace_XY_OS.yaml`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/systolic_constraint_depthwise/mapspace_XY_OS.yaml`
    * Eyeriss (eyeriss)
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/eyeriss_like/arch/eyeriss_like.yaml`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/eyeriss_like/arch/components/*`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/eyeriss_like/constraints/*`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/eyeriss_like/constraints_depthwise/*`
* Workloads
    * ResNet18
        * `benchmarks/layer_shapes/resnet18/*`
    * MobileNetV3
        * `benchmarks/layer_shapes/mobv3/*`
* Mapper
    * `benchmarks/mapper/mapper_squareloop.yaml`
* Cryptographic engine
    * `benchmarks/crypto/AES-GCM-parallel.yaml`

Additionally `benchmarks/rtl-validation/` contains the experiment setup for the RTL validation experiment.




## Running experiments

Before running the experiments adjust `squareloop_dir` in `experiments/scripts/utils.py` to contain the path (`squareloop_dir`) to the squareloop repository. (Note: Some runs might produce slightly different results due to the restrictive mapper used. Rerunning the experiment should help reproduce the original result).

### Single Layer (Fig. 10)

Run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_LayerwiseCosearch.py` to fill `experiments/results/LayerwiseCosearch/` with results.
Then use `python3 experiments/scripts/plot_LayerwiseCosearch.py` to generate the plot in `experiments/results/LayerwiseCosearch/layerwise_cosearch.pdf`.

Note: this only runs for ResNet18 under Eyeriss as this is the test case for in-house accelerator (Golden Result), so that we could make apple-to-apple comparison with SecureLoop.

### Interlayer search (Fig. 11)

First run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_Squareloop1Layer.py` to find the single layer optimal layouts and fill results in `experiments/results/Squareloop1Layer/`.
Next, run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_Interlayer.py` to execute the layout constraint search and fill results in `experiments/results/Interlayer/`.
Lastly, use `python3 experiments/scripts/plot_Interlayer.py` to draw the plots in respective folders in `experiments/results/Interlayer/` and print the wall clock times of the constraint search.
The wall clock times for single layer search can be derived from summing wall times of all layers for a respective (architecture, model) combination in `experiments/results/Squareloop1Layer/stats.csv`.

### Number of engines (Fig. 12a)

Run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_NumberEngines.py` to fill `experiments/results/NumberEngines/` with results.
Then use `python3 experiments/scripts/plot_NumberEngines.py` to generate the plot in `experiments/results/NumberEngines/NumberEngines.pdf`.

Note:  one could change `num_engines` in the `experiments/scripts/run_NumberEngines.py` to study the impact of different value of `num_engines` on the overall performance.

### RTL validation (Fig. 12b)

Run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_RTLValidation.py` to print the results for SquareLoop.
Then use `python3 experiments/scripts/plot_RTLValidation.py` to generate the plot in `experiments/results/RTLValidation/RTLValidation.pdf` (note: the latencies are hardcoded in the `plot_RTLValidation.py` script and need to be manually adjusted).

Enjoy! XD

Commit message:

rename Squareloop1Layer to InterlayerInitialSearch

README.md, after:

# SquareLoop

## About

SquareLoop is a tool based on [TimeLoop](https://timeloop.csail.mit.edu/) and its two derivatives: LayoutLoop and [SecureLoop](https://github.com/kyungmi-lee/SecureLoop-MICRO2023Artifact). It integrates the functionalities of both those tools: more accurate layout-based memory modeling and cryptographic overhead, and improves on both of them.

The key contributions of SquareLoop over previous tools are:
* flexible, all-level partitioning based AuthBlock
* realistic layout-based memory model utilizing accurate dataspace-wise evaluation
* introduction of physical ranks, allowing for independent per-dataspace layout and AuthBlock specification 
* Authentication-Layout-Mapping co-search algorithm

![Overview](overview.png)




## Usage

It is recommended to clone this repository inside the docker available [here](https://github.com/Accelergy-Project/accelergy-timeloop-infrastructure/tree/master), which has all required packages for building squareloop.
Running the experiments will require installing the following python packages in a virtual environment:

`pip install torch torchlens pyyaml torchvision pandas`

To build SquareLoop use the `scons` command in the root directory of the repository.

SquareLoop interface is based on that of TimeLoop with some additions.
Use `build/timeloop-model` to evaluate a workload on a given architecture provided a mapping.
In order to enable layout-based memory modeling include a layout file in the command. Example layouts can be found in the experiment results.
To also anable cryptographic overhead evaluation include a cryptographic engine file, for example `benchmarks/crypto/AES-GCM-parallel.yaml`, and include `authblok_lines` section in the layout.

`build/timeloop-mapper` with provided layout will search for the best mapping using that layout. If layout is not provided the algorithm will co-search the mapping and layout (and AuthBlock if crypto is included).




## Code Structure

Most changes introduced by SquareLoop are to the following files:

* `src/model/buffer.cpp` -
    This file contains the code for layout and AuthBlock modeling. The entrypoint for that evaluation is in the function `BufferLevel::ComputeBankConflictSlowdown`, which calculates a slowdown caused by memory and cryptography for a given memory level.

* `src/layoutspaces/layoutspace.cpp` -
    This file contains the code that creates the design space of layouts and AuthBlocks used in the Authentication-Layout-Mapping co-search algorithm.

* `src/applications/mapper/mapper-thread.cpp` -
    This file extends the mapping search by exploration of the layout and AuthBlock design space created in `layoutspace.cpp`.




## Experiment setup

We use the following files in the experiments:

* Architecture
    * SIGMA (vector256)
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/vector_256.yaml`
    * Edge-TPU (systolic)
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/vector_256.yaml`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/systolic_constraint/mapspace_XY_OS.yaml`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/systolic_constraint_depthwise/mapspace_XY_OS.yaml`
    * Eyeriss (eyeriss)
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/eyeriss_like/arch/eyeriss_like.yaml`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/eyeriss_like/arch/components/*`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/eyeriss_like/constraints/*`
        * `benchmarks/arch_designs/eyeriss_like/constraints_depthwise/*`
* Workloads
    * ResNet18
        * `benchmarks/layer_shapes/resnet18/*`
    * MobileNetV3
        * `benchmarks/layer_shapes/mobv3/*`
* Mapper
    * `benchmarks/mapper/mapper_squareloop.yaml`
* Cryptographic engine
    * `benchmarks/crypto/AES-GCM-parallel.yaml`

Additionally `benchmarks/rtl-validation/` contains the experiment setup for the RTL validation experiment.




## Running experiments

Before running the experiments adjust `squareloop_dir` in `experiments/scripts/utils.py` to contain the path (`squareloop_dir`) to the squareloop repository. (Note: Some runs might produce slightly different results due to the restrictive mapper used. Rerunning the experiment should help reproduce the original result).

### Single Layer (Fig. 10)

Run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_LayerwiseCosearch.py` to fill `experiments/results/LayerwiseCosearch/` with results.
Then use `python3 experiments/scripts/plot_LayerwiseCosearch.py` to generate the plot in `experiments/results/LayerwiseCosearch/layerwise_cosearch.pdf`.

Note: this only runs for ResNet18 under Eyeriss as this is the test case for in-house accelerator (Golden Result), so that we could make apple-to-apple comparison with SecureLoop.

### Interlayer search (Fig. 11)

First run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_InterlayerInitialSearch.py` to find the single layer optimal layouts and fill results in `experiments/results/InterlayerInitialSearch/`.
Next, run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_Interlayer.py` to execute the layout constraint search and fill results in `experiments/results/Interlayer/`.
Lastly, use `python3 experiments/scripts/plot_Interlayer.py` to draw the plots in respective folders in `experiments/results/Interlayer/` and print the wall clock times of the constraint search.
The wall clock times for single layer search can be derived from summing wall times of all layers for a respective (architecture, model) combination in `experiments/results/InterlayerInitialSearch/stats.csv`.

### Number of engines (Fig. 12a)

Run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_NumberEngines.py` to fill `experiments/results/NumberEngines/` with results.
Then use `python3 experiments/scripts/plot_NumberEngines.py` to generate the plot in `experiments/results/NumberEngines/NumberEngines.pdf`.

Note:  one could change `num_engines` in the `experiments/scripts/run_NumberEngines.py` to study the impact of different value of `num_engines` on the overall performance.

### RTL validation (Fig. 12b)

Run `python3 experiments/scripts/run_RTLValidation.py` to print the results for SquareLoop.
Then use `python3 experiments/scripts/plot_RTLValidation.py` to generate the plot in `experiments/results/RTLValidation/RTLValidation.pdf` (note: the latencies are hardcoded in the `plot_RTLValidation.py` script and need to be manually adjusted).

Enjoy! XD
